---
starred: false
title: ''
datePublished: '2016-04-29T06:47:19.103Z'
dateModified: null
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-04-29-3a6f81e8-1ef7-4f9d-9650-af8ad9eda462.md
published: true
inFeed: true
hasPage: false
inNav: false
_type: MediaObject

---
# A Game Designed To Break Your Heart

A game designed to break your heart. I think Bart Giamotti said that. I think so. Google it. Of course he's talking about BASEBALL. And it surely has broken my heart and has been used as a scythe wielded by other people to break my heart. Long before I ever wanted to be a junky I wanted to be a baseball player.

I lived for baseball as a kid. I learned to hate the rain as it took away games from me. But the beauty. The exquisite pain of heartbreak. The duende of it and more on duende later. All that was unknown to me but I suppose felt on some level until October of 1975\.

So I'm 11 and I'm a little league catcher. And I'm GOOD at it. My 11 year old mind doesn't understand it but the 51 year old mind knows that after all that kid living and after the molestations and after all the bullying for being the fat kid I've found a place where I'm someone else. Someone good.

In those days of late summer of 75 my lifelong obsession with the Orioles hadn't quite hit yet. I was Carlton Fisk. I was a Red Sox Major League Catcher. I did the whole holding my bat above my head with straight upthrust arms. That slow deliberate walk into the box. The quiet swagger. So as October brought the World Series my yet to be broken heart shined with the certainty that I would see my team win. 

Now I knew nothing of any curse or any drought of World Series rings since 1918\. I just knew Fisk and his kingdom behind the plate and Louis Tiant and his backwards windup and the hippy Bill "Spaceman" Lee and this whole cast of characters that made up this first beloved team of mine. And I knew the hated Reds who I hated for simply their audacity of suggesting an obstacle to my guys victory. I knew Rose and Griffey and Morgan and Concepcion. All of those motherfuckers. And I was about to know heartbreak.

Game six is written in the history books. It's epic. It's the setup of a Greek Tragedy. It's the fuel that fires the engine of an 11 years olds first glimpse of the cruelty of baseball and of life itself. Facing elimination the Red Sox mount a comeback unrivaled by anything I'd yet to experience ending, of course, with THE HOMERUN. Carlton Fisk's titanic blast that he literally and magically guides just fair as he ways his arms frantically, magnificently to the right of the foul poll and a universe of baseball fans/slaves watches it bend and just go fair. And my little soft young mind is blown.

And then it's game seven. I think there was a rainout the next day that I yet again hated whoever controlled the weather. Game Seven. Game. Seven. Such soul rending and life affirming words for my tribe. GAME SEVEN! 

Now is when we win.

Now is when we are all good.

Now is when we know justice.

And now is the moment I watch the Red Sox lose.

And now I literally start crying like I'd later cry when so many dogs and a father died.

I say I cried for three days. I'm sure I didn't. But I know I cried that night. And I cried in a house that really didn't get baseball. But they did understand me enough to comfort me I suppose. They were likely shocked at my reaction. At my complete dismantling. At my wrath at the Reds who I cried I hated. HATED! But something little caught fire in me. Some little ember of a passion. And I made a simple connection that has pretty much pushed me down the road ever since. Heartbreak is beautiful. Without it we have nothing.

Fancy words to be sure. I don't even know if I believe it or I just like the sound of it but I sure did mine it's depths for decades after.